readme.md, before:

![main logo](https://i.imgur.com/hWe5gZi.png?raw=true "Main Logo")

Nimis is a barebones, highly versatile, NodeJS asynchronous backup utility with built-in secure hashing.

## Warning

This project is under development and should not in any way be used in a production environment. 

## Getting Started

Nimis contains only what's most needed and as such it naturally requires you to plug in most of your own application. Feel free to modify it in order to suit your needs. 

### Prerequisites

Depedencies required for Nimis to function properly. 

```
1. NodeJS (8.5.0)
2. Zip utility
    2.1 - Tested in a development environment with CentOS 7. 
```

### Installing

Installing the Nimis utility is quite simple, just pull a copy of this repository and intilize the npm package.

```
npm init 
```

The default backup directory for Nimis is /backups/ - you must ensure that this directory exists or you must specify your own directory. 

### Testing 

You can test the Nimis build by running `npm run test`, which will produce the tests - an example is below. 

```
Nimis (backup)
    ✓ Verify nimis initial file integrity checking.
    ✓ Verify nimis gzip file integrity checking.
    ✓ Verify nimis return object data structure.
    ✓ Verify Nimis with multiple randomized files.
    ✓ Verify key provided to return object.

  Nimis (rebuild)
    ✓ Verify unzip functionality.
    ✓ Verify integrity of gzip files inside zip.
    ✓ Verify extraction functionality of gzip files.
    ✓ Verify integrity of original files.
    ✓ Verify nimis file name rebuild system functionality.

  Environment System
    ✓ Check for working zip utility.

  Security System
    ✓ Generate random data for Nimis.

  File System
    ✓ Check /backups/ directory exists.
    ✓ Check file system is correctly reporting non-existant directories.
    ✓ Check file system is correctly reporting non-existant files.
    ✓ Create new test file.
    ✓ Check hash of test file.
    ✓ Delete test file from system.

  Gzip System
    ✓ Check gzip functionality with test file.
    ✓ Check gzip file integrity.
    ✓ Delete original test file from system.
    ✓ Delete gzip test file from system.

  Zip System
    ✓ Create new test file.
    ✓ Gzip and compress new test file.
    ✓ Zip new test gzip file.
    ✓ Check zip file integrity.

  Clean up
    ✓ Delete original test file.
    ✓ Delete gzip test file.
    ✓ Delete zip test file.


  29 passing (62ms)
```


## Execution

#### Nimis initialization

```
let nimis = require('./nimis.js').call; 
```

#### Nimis example

You're required to send an array of file names to Nimis - you must include the complete path. This is likely going to undergo some more development soon to fix a few potential bugs. 

```
nimis(['file1.js', 'file2.js'])
```

#### Nimis reply 
Nimis will then reply with the objects containing your hashes. Both the initial file and the compressed file hashes will be provided, along with the output file name - which is uniquely generated by Nimis. Properties such as the initial file name are also included to assist in rebuilding your initial file from secure storage. 


`iHash`


The iHash object contains your initial hash, this is the hash of the initial file provided to Nimis, which can later be used to ensure that the compressed version contains the correct file. 


`cHash`


The zipHash object contains your compressed/gzip file hash.

`FnI`


The fileNameInitial, or FnI object contains the inital file name, which can later be used to rebuild the initial file. 

`FnC`


The fileNameCompressed, or FnC object contains the zipped/compressed file name. This is uniquely generated by Nimis and stored in the /backups/ directory. Please note that all file extensions are preserved and include the .gz extension. 


```
{ p0: 
   { iHash: 'e7a555eb3f7c27327a21ae7e48a7481c9543efd68d7c92a080318acbfd4cae1cfa4d8fd3bcd05d3e51702f6f68112442a2ace378317cbd394a9a5bbf71714f42',
     cHash: '286729de6406b8b5a5e1d800259e54a9ae7e198ad4c8a45468baf72300195c26723c0505c0a7e682ec8ec8374b8743778c295663a334607521fb76a24c6a6361',
     FnI: 'package.json',
     FnC: '82830dd28b38622a05efbef62346ebbf47f7b7b3.json.gz' },
  p1: 
   { iHash: '47690a5884998f96e5430169368e01c661316e4fa09f0388359e6b3084bff17c392f2872e76378e16ce228e62ec01399e8ed096af67bf5ecdf49198b0e0bb503',
     cHash: 'b167d995128a0efe0365460b063b7465fb607d01e6397de327819063386eb17912237ea086f085277a0991facb03156803e7b6cb3dece58a87c36c30e43395d7',
     FnI: 'readme.md',
     FnC: 'f100f1fe700af678835f12b384794c9fbd91f402.md.gz' },
  p2: 
   { iHash: 'eec63369ef956e9c31f4ae7db33672edc6f82555cdffe0a1be6c02f8eeacda0872d6ccf82cb3f78f4266d33c2be7493d585fe58f2e5db984b8501804d90fe6ef',
     cHash: 'c647063f348c0b98ab098dcf27dede177e45ae153281bea06a1c92f3dd4c2a45a741747fa8c3673c158d5867aed8860c68c11bcf4d5604a119cabafef36a9996',
     FnI: 'package-lock.json',
     FnC: 'f4c68d1e1b8d06cf4a4a376c3bf6fd9917805326.json.gz' },
  COMPLETE: 
   { hash: '86ce482199958e5cc0f2a3f2d1becbe269a28e106519c203e35ad5c13655d33f881f4dedb498481dea9b4ff1b3aa377d2f083210c6cb13a0543c6c0ee90123e1',
     fileName: '0413cc052b1a2629fa4594605e05470a4674b30b.zip',
     key: 'e3862a0a8a6c2aa9c57228157501bc59b1da14e6e214797fe3fb5a63e5c3' } }
```

As you can see, multiple files can be sent as an array. Nimis will return objects, such as p0, p1, p2 and so forth, based on the files provided to Nimis. 


`COMPLETE` 

Once your files have been hashed, compressed and hashed again, Nimis will then compress the the GZIP files into one main zip file, providing encryption in the process. The `COMPLETE` object also contains the `hash` which is the hash of the final zip file, the `fileName` object property, which contains the file name of the zip and the `key` object which contains the password to the zip file. 

These are both currently stored in the /backups/ directory. 

TO DO: Build config setup utility to pre-define directory. 

#### Errors

Here is an example of an error where 1/3 of the files sent to Nimis did not exist.

```
{ p0: 
   { iHash: 'e7a555eb3f7c27327a21ae7e48a7481c9543efd68d7c92a080318acbfd4cae1cfa4d8fd3bcd05d3e51702f6f68112442a2ace378317cbd394a9a5bbf71714f42',
     cHash: '286729de6406b8b5a5e1d800259e54a9ae7e198ad4c8a45468baf72300195c26723c0505c0a7e682ec8ec8374b8743778c295663a334607521fb76a24c6a6361',
     FnI: 'package.json',
     FnC: '1a68c8625cf76cde09f198215f7ab2b891bef8ee.json.gz' },
  p1: { error: 'FILE NOT FOUND' },
  p2: 
   { iHash: 'eec63369ef956e9c31f4ae7db33672edc6f82555cdffe0a1be6c02f8eeacda0872d6ccf82cb3f78f4266d33c2be7493d585fe58f2e5db984b8501804d90fe6ef',
     cHash: 'c647063f348c0b98ab098dcf27dede177e45ae153281bea06a1c92f3dd4c2a45a741747fa8c3673c158d5867aed8860c68c11bcf4d5604a119cabafef36a9996',
     FnI: 'package-lock.json',
     FnC: '3bef38cc041f93e99c45851242041ecd3d377e94.json.gz' },
  COMPLETE: 
   { hash: 'c6d16d4557cac060026213d5f3f12fc749af1ec7504fbf90f8d5debdb91c913d7ea7a656fea7b6e62660ad391baea1a3036d53da6b2b49d58ac7243d994abfd9',
     fileName: '85bacd593e32740e85142f3f39aeb609cafcc785.zip',
     key: '23f18278753d9f9a16a3a53fd953d1d17e739684d7f0712b6e6aac3de1a8' } }
```


#### Asynchronous execution
Below is an example of how to asynchronously execute Nimis. 

```
let nimis = require('./nimis.js').call; 

async function foo(){
   try{
       let bar = await nimis(['read1me.md', 'kek.js']); 
        console.log(bar);
       
   } catch(err){
        console.error(err);
    } 
    
}; 

foo();
```

## Technical 

A preview of the technical inner workings of Nimis. 

#### Pre Hash Stage 

Nimis will take the intial file provided and hash it. 

#### Compression Stage 

Nimis will take the intial file and compress it using gzip with level 9 compression.

#### Post Hash Stage 

Nimis will then hash the compressed (gzip) file. 

#### Bind Stage 

If Nimis has been provided multiple files, it will bind all those files into one main zip, for easier storage. 

#### Bind Stage (Extended - Encryption)

Nimis will construct a 40 charecter unique key and apply it as the password to the final zip file. 

#### Bind Hashing Stage 

Nimis will then hash the .zip file and provide it back to you as the `COMPLETE` property, containing the `hash` property, `fileName` property and the `key` property. 


## Deployment

Due to the asynchronous nature of Nimis, your application must also be asynchronous and as such, must also execute nimis asynchronously. Failure to do so will result in critical errors. 


## To do list

```
1. Do more error checking. 

```

## Versioning

* v1.0.0 (current) 

## Authors

* **Edin Jusupovic** 


## License

Coming soon!

Commit message:

new tests added, small cleanup

readme.md, after:

![main logo](https://i.imgur.com/hWe5gZi.png?raw=true "Main Logo")

Nimis is a barebones, highly versatile, NodeJS asynchronous backup utility with built-in secure hashing.

## Warning

This project is under development and should not in any way be used in a production environment. 

## Getting Started

Nimis contains only what's most needed and as such it naturally requires you to plug in most of your own application. Feel free to modify it in order to suit your needs. 

### Prerequisites

Depedencies required for Nimis to function properly. 

```
1. NodeJS (8.5.0)
2. Zip utility
    2.1 - Tested in a development environment with CentOS 7. 
```

### Installing

Installing the Nimis utility is quite simple, just pull a copy of this repository and intilize the npm package.

```
npm init 
```

The default backup directory for Nimis is /backups/ - you must ensure that this directory exists or you must specify your own directory. 

### Testing 

You can test the Nimis build by running `npm run test`, which will produce the tests - an example is below. 

```
  Nimis (backup)
    ✓ Verify nimis initial file integrity checking. [NDY]
    ✓ Verify nimis gzip file integrity checking. [NDY]
    ✓ Verify Nimis with multiple randomized files. [NDY]
    ✓ Verify key provided to return object. [NDY]

  Nimis | Return object data structure
    ✓ Prepare test file 1.
    ✓ Prepare test file 2.
    ✓ iHash
    ✓ cHash (59ms)
    ✓ FnC
    ✓ FnI
    ✓ COMPLETE object
    ✓ COMPLETE.hash
    ✓ COMPLETE.fileName
    ✓ COMPLETE.key

  Environment System
    ✓ Check for working zip utility. [NDY]

  Security System
    ✓ Generate random data for Nimis.

  File System
    ✓ Check /backups/ directory exists.
    ✓ Check file system is correctly reporting non-existant directories.
    ✓ Check file system is correctly reporting non-existant files.
    ✓ Create new test file.
    ✓ Check hash of test file.
    ✓ Delete test file from system.

  Gzip System
    ✓ Check gzip functionality with test file.
    ✓ Check gzip file integrity.
    ✓ Delete original test file from system.
    ✓ Delete gzip test file from system.

  Zip System
    ✓ Create new test file.
    ✓ Gzip and compress new test file.
    ✓ Zip new test gzip file.
    ✓ Check zip file integrity. [NDY]

  Clean up
    ✓ Delete original test file.
    ✓ Delete gzip test file.
    ✓ Delete zip test file.
    ✓ Delete test file 1 for object structure testing.
    ✓ Delete test file 2 for object structure testing.


  35 passing (198ms)
```

Tests that are currently not developed or ready yet have '[NDY]' at the end of their description. 


## Execution

#### Nimis initialization

```
let nimis = require('./nimis.js').backup; 
```

#### Nimis example

You're required to send an array of file names to Nimis - you must include the complete path. This is likely going to undergo some more development soon to fix a few potential bugs. 

```
nimis(['file1.js', 'file2.js']);
```

#### Nimis reply 
Nimis will then reply with the objects containing your hashes. Both the initial file and the compressed file hashes will be provided, along with the output file name - which is uniquely generated by Nimis. Properties such as the initial file name are also included to assist in rebuilding your initial file from secure storage. 


`iHash`


The iHash object contains your initial hash, this is the hash of the initial file provided to Nimis, which can later be used to ensure that the compressed version contains the correct file. 


`cHash`


The zipHash object contains your compressed/gzip file hash.

`FnI`


The fileNameInitial, or FnI object contains the inital file name, which can later be used to rebuild the initial file. The FnI property also contains the initial file path along with the full file name and extension. 

`FnC`


The fileNameCompressed, or FnC object contains the zipped/compressed file name. This is uniquely generated by Nimis and stored in the /backups/ directory. Please note that all file extensions are preserved and include the .gz extension. 


```
{ p0: 
   { iHash: 'e7a555eb3f7c27327a21ae7e48a7481c9543efd68d7c92a080318acbfd4cae1cfa4d8fd3bcd05d3e51702f6f68112442a2ace378317cbd394a9a5bbf71714f42',
     cHash: '286729de6406b8b5a5e1d800259e54a9ae7e198ad4c8a45468baf72300195c26723c0505c0a7e682ec8ec8374b8743778c295663a334607521fb76a24c6a6361',
     FnI: 'package.json',
     FnC: '82830dd28b38622a05efbef62346ebbf47f7b7b3.json.gz' },
  p1: 
   { iHash: '47690a5884998f96e5430169368e01c661316e4fa09f0388359e6b3084bff17c392f2872e76378e16ce228e62ec01399e8ed096af67bf5ecdf49198b0e0bb503',
     cHash: 'b167d995128a0efe0365460b063b7465fb607d01e6397de327819063386eb17912237ea086f085277a0991facb03156803e7b6cb3dece58a87c36c30e43395d7',
     FnI: 'readme.md',
     FnC: 'f100f1fe700af678835f12b384794c9fbd91f402.md.gz' },
  p2: 
   { iHash: 'eec63369ef956e9c31f4ae7db33672edc6f82555cdffe0a1be6c02f8eeacda0872d6ccf82cb3f78f4266d33c2be7493d585fe58f2e5db984b8501804d90fe6ef',
     cHash: 'c647063f348c0b98ab098dcf27dede177e45ae153281bea06a1c92f3dd4c2a45a741747fa8c3673c158d5867aed8860c68c11bcf4d5604a119cabafef36a9996',
     FnI: 'package-lock.json',
     FnC: 'f4c68d1e1b8d06cf4a4a376c3bf6fd9917805326.json.gz' },
  COMPLETE: 
   { hash: '86ce482199958e5cc0f2a3f2d1becbe269a28e106519c203e35ad5c13655d33f881f4dedb498481dea9b4ff1b3aa377d2f083210c6cb13a0543c6c0ee90123e1',
     fileName: '0413cc052b1a2629fa4594605e05470a4674b30b.zip',
     key: 'e3862a0a8a6c2aa9c57228157501bc59b1da14e6e214797fe3fb5a63e5c3' } }
```

As you can see, multiple files can be sent as an array. Nimis will return objects, such as p0, p1, p2 and so forth, based on the files provided to Nimis. 


`COMPLETE` 

Once your files have been hashed, compressed and hashed again, Nimis will then compress the the GZIP files into one main zip file, providing encryption in the process. The `COMPLETE` object also contains the `hash` which is the hash of the final zip file, the `fileName` object property, which contains the file name of the zip and the `key` object which contains the password to the zip file. 

These are both currently stored in the /backups/ directory. 

TO DO: Build config setup utility to pre-define directory. 

#### Errors

Here is an example of an error where 1/3 of the files sent to Nimis did not exist.

```
{ p0: 
   { iHash: 'e7a555eb3f7c27327a21ae7e48a7481c9543efd68d7c92a080318acbfd4cae1cfa4d8fd3bcd05d3e51702f6f68112442a2ace378317cbd394a9a5bbf71714f42',
     cHash: '286729de6406b8b5a5e1d800259e54a9ae7e198ad4c8a45468baf72300195c26723c0505c0a7e682ec8ec8374b8743778c295663a334607521fb76a24c6a6361',
     FnI: 'package.json',
     FnC: '1a68c8625cf76cde09f198215f7ab2b891bef8ee.json.gz' },
  p1: { error: 'FILE NOT FOUND' },
  p2: 
   { iHash: 'eec63369ef956e9c31f4ae7db33672edc6f82555cdffe0a1be6c02f8eeacda0872d6ccf82cb3f78f4266d33c2be7493d585fe58f2e5db984b8501804d90fe6ef',
     cHash: 'c647063f348c0b98ab098dcf27dede177e45ae153281bea06a1c92f3dd4c2a45a741747fa8c3673c158d5867aed8860c68c11bcf4d5604a119cabafef36a9996',
     FnI: 'package-lock.json',
     FnC: '3bef38cc041f93e99c45851242041ecd3d377e94.json.gz' },
  COMPLETE: 
   { hash: 'c6d16d4557cac060026213d5f3f12fc749af1ec7504fbf90f8d5debdb91c913d7ea7a656fea7b6e62660ad391baea1a3036d53da6b2b49d58ac7243d994abfd9',
     fileName: '85bacd593e32740e85142f3f39aeb609cafcc785.zip',
     key: '23f18278753d9f9a16a3a53fd953d1d17e739684d7f0712b6e6aac3de1a8' } }
```


#### Asynchronous execution
Below is an example of how to asynchronously execute Nimis. 

```
let nimis = require('./nimis.js').backup; 

async function foo(){
   try{
       let bar = await nimis(['read1me.md', 'kek.js']); 
        console.log(bar);
       
   } catch(err){
        console.error(err);
    } 
    
}; 

foo();
```

## Technical 

A preview of the technical inner workings of Nimis. 

#### Pre Hash Stage 

Nimis will take the intial file provided and hash it. 

#### Compression Stage 

Nimis will take the intial file and compress it using gzip with level 9 compression.

#### Post Hash Stage 

Nimis will then hash the compressed (gzip) file. 

#### Bind Stage 

If Nimis has been provided multiple files, it will bind all those files into one main zip, for easier storage. 

#### Bind Stage (Extended - Encryption)

Nimis will construct a 40 charecter unique key and apply it as the password to the final zip file. 

#### Bind Hashing Stage 

Nimis will then hash the .zip file and provide it back to you as the `COMPLETE` property, containing the `hash` property, `fileName` property and the `key` property. 


## Deployment

Due to the asynchronous nature of Nimis, your application must also be asynchronous and as such, must also execute nimis asynchronously. Failure to do so will result in critical errors. 


## To do list

```
1. Do more error checking. 

```

## Versioning

* v1.0.0 (current) 

## Authors

* **Edin Jusupovic** 


## License

Coming soon!
